README.md, before:

### Requirements

To be able to use bash scripts and Ansible common roles in other projects, run:

`./scripts/extendScripsAndAnsibleRolesPaths.sh`

from the `ansible-commons-roles` folder

Make sure your Ansible projects have `ansible.cfg` file `~/.ansible/common_roles` included:
```yaml
[defaults]
roles_path=roles:~/.ansible/common_roles
```

### Features:

- [Change the current folder to the Ansible directory](#change-the-current-folder-to-the-ansible-directory)
- [Insert one template after another](#to-insert-one-template-after-another)
- [Generate Java class from a template](#to-generate-java-class-from-a-template-and-put-it-into-the-correct-package-path)
- [Possible issues](#issues)


#### Change the current folder to the Ansible directory

Add into the bash script:

1. When project does not exist yet extract and pass `$artifact_id` to the `changePwd2AnsibleScriptsFolder`:

```bash
#!/usr/bin/env bash

source ansible.commons.sh

# get artifact id as $artifact_id variable

changePwd2AnsibleScriptsFolder $artifact_id

# pass app_basedir to Ansible:
ansible-playbook \
  -v \
  -i inventories/local \
  --extra-vars "${extra_vars} app_basedir=$app_basedir" \
  playbooks/somePlaybook.yaml
```

2. When the project already exists, and you extend its functionality:
```bash
#!/usr/bin/env bash

source ansible.commons.sh

changePwd2AnsibleScriptsFolder

# pass app_basedir to Ansible:
ansible-playbook \
  -v \
  -i inventories/local \
  --extra-vars "${extra_vars} app_basedir=$app_basedir" \
  playbooks/somePlaybook.yaml
```


#### To insert one template after another

```yaml
- name: "Update the root `pom.xml` file with git url"
  include_role:
    name: insert_template_after_another
  with_items:
    - path: "{{ app_basedir }}/pom.xml"
      insert_after_template: "{{ role_path }}/templates/insert_after_template.j2"
      insert_template: "{{ role_path }}/templates/insert_template.j2"
```

#### To generate Java class from a template and put it into the correct package path

In the Java template specify package path via `{{ group_id }}` variable:
```j2
package {{ group_id }}.app;
```

In the Ansible script use `{{ group_id_path }}` when specify the destination for java:
```yaml
- name: "Generate java classes of `domain` module"
  include_role:
    name: gen_java_class_from_template
  with_items:
    - src: domain/src/main/java/ApplicationService.java.j2
      dst: "{{ app_basedir }}/domain/src/main/java/{{ group_id_path }}/app/ApplicationService.java"
    - src: domain/src/main/resources/META-INF/beans.xml
      dst: "{{ app_basedir }}/domain/src/main/resources/META-INF/beans.xml"
```

### Issues:

You get an error: `ERROR! the role 'someRoleName' was not found in ...`

Make sure that:

1. `~/.ansible/common_roles` is included in the error message in the list of paths for search. 
To make the folder searchable it must be included in the `roles_path`:
```yaml
roles_path=roles:~/.ansible/common_roles
```

2. Commons roles are up-to-date. If you added a new common role or renamed existing, 
   run: `./scripts/extendScripsAndAnsibleRolesPaths.sh`

Commit message:

load_maven_properties role, fixed an issue with app_dir

README.md, after:

### Requirements

To be able to use bash scripts and Ansible common roles in other projects, run:

`./scripts/extendScripsAndAnsibleRolesPaths.sh`

from the `ansible-commons-roles` folder

Make sure your Ansible projects have `ansible.cfg` file `~/.ansible/common_roles` included:
```yaml
[defaults]
roles_path=roles:~/.ansible/common_roles
```

### Features:

- [Change the current folder to the Ansible directory](#change-the-current-folder-to-the-ansible-directory)
- [Insert one template after another](#to-insert-one-template-after-another)
- [Generate Java class from a template](#to-generate-java-class-from-a-template-and-put-it-into-the-correct-package-path)
- [Possible issues](#issues)


#### Change the current folder to the Ansible directory

Add into the bash script:

1. When project does not exist yet extract and pass `$artifact_id` to the `changePwd2AnsibleScriptsFolder`:

```bash
#!/usr/bin/env bash

source ansible.commons.sh

# get artifact id as $artifact_id variable

changePwd2AnsibleScriptsFolder $artifact_id

# pass app_basedir to Ansible:
ansible-playbook \
  -v \
  -i inventories/local \
  --extra-vars "${extra_vars} app_basedir=$app_basedir" \
  playbooks/somePlaybook.yaml
```

2. When the project already exists, and you extend its functionality:
```bash
#!/usr/bin/env bash

source ansible.commons.sh

changePwd2AnsibleScriptsFolder

# pass app_basedir to Ansible:
ansible-playbook \
  -v \
  -i inventories/local \
  --extra-vars "${extra_vars} app_basedir=$app_basedir" \
  playbooks/somePlaybook.yaml
```


#### To insert one template after another

```yaml
- name: "Update the root `pom.xml` file with git url"
  include_role:
    name: insert_template_after_another
  with_items:
    - path: "{{ app_basedir }}/pom.xml"
      insert_after_template: "{{ role_path }}/templates/insert_after_template.j2"
      insert_template: "{{ role_path }}/templates/insert_template.j2"
```

#### To generate Java class from a template and put it into the correct package path

In the Java template specify package path via `{{ group_id }}` variable:
```j2
package {{ group_id }}.app;
```

In the Ansible script use `{{ group_id_path }}` when specify the destination for java:
```yaml
- name: "Generate java classes of `domain` module"
  include_role:
    name: gen_java_class_from_template
  with_items:
    - src: domain/src/main/java/ApplicationService.java.j2
      dst: "{{ app_basedir }}/domain/src/main/java/{{ group_id_path }}/app/ApplicationService.java"
    - src: domain/src/main/resources/META-INF/beans.xml
      dst: "{{ app_basedir }}/domain/src/main/resources/META-INF/beans.xml"
```
Note how the `app` is used in the java class as part of the package name and in the Ansible script as part of the path.
For `{{ group_id }}.x.y.z` package, the path should look like: `{{ group_id_path }}/x/y/z`.

**Note** this role suites not only for Java classes. 
It is very usefull with all file types, when the destination might not exist when you run it.
The role automatically creates all required folders according to the `dst` path.

#### Load all maven properties into the project

```yaml
- name: "Loading projects properties"
  include_role:
    name: load_maven_properties
```

### Issues:

You get an error: `ERROR! the role 'someRoleName' was not found in ...`

Make sure that:

1. `~/.ansible/common_roles` is included in the error message in the list of paths for search. 
To make the folder searchable it must be included in the `roles_path`:
```yaml
roles_path=roles:~/.ansible/common_roles
```

2. Commons roles are up-to-date. If you added a new common role or renamed existing, 
   run: `./scripts/extendScripsAndAnsibleRolesPaths.sh`
